Chapter 1: “Clay”  










The sun beat upon the rocks and shimmered lightly off the steadily flowing river, 
casting rays of light into his eyes. Shielding them, he patted down the rocks with 
careful paws, minding each step as if it could be his last. Behind him was his 
bike, laid upon the ground (it had no kickstand), and ahead of him was a pile of 
sticks he had been collecting with friends for weeks. Reaching them, he sat down to 
avoid falling into the water below- though he was a cat, he had a history of being 
clumsy and unbalanced. With a fluttering tail, he reached down and picked up a 
stick- a thick limb branch which ended in a fork. He used it to fish muck out of 
the water and stir it about. In his boredom, he began to inch closer to the water, 
wondering what might lay below. One time, a friend of his named Clay claimed he had 
found a diamond. Clay was always spouting lies for attention.

        Mita was a tabby cat, whose tail ended in a white point with horizontal 
stripes down the length of it. He kept his fur clean and soft with conditioner 
because he knew keeping up appearances was important. 

        Mita tested the water with a wary claw, and then his whole paw pad. It was 
colder than he thought and rushed about him in a curious manner. He put the stick 
down and scooched himself upon the lowest rock, removed his shoes, and put his legs 
into the water. He glanced up, and across the river saw him: it was Clay! The 
ferret noticed him back, waving at first and then scuttling across the bridge to 
meet Mita. 


“Hey Mite! What’re you doing?”


        Though Mita thought it was obvious, he humored the boy. He explained that 
he was just testing the water, and planned to go for a swim in it.


“I dunno if you should. Mom says the river has a dangerous undertow.”


        Mita thought it over. He glanced at Clay, at the water, and at the bank 
across from him. Looking down again, he saw a glitter in the water- something metal 
below the surface. His curiosity peaked, he scraped the sediment off it with the 
stick. The unmistakable shape of a bicycle handlebar was revealed, the water 
assisting his removal of the dirt. Calling Clay’s attention, he repositioned 
himself onto all fours to stabilize his reach down into the current. Pulling hard, 
he managed to raise the bike by about a foot, and the handle breached the surface 
of the water. Clay descended wordlessly, emitting only a noise of surprise that 
vaguely sounded like the word “wow.” 
________________
________________


2. Home
Mita the curious cat and Clay the skittish, inquisitive ferret bring The Bicycle 
back to Clay’s house. Clay starts to head inside to ask about it, but turns around 
after hearing his parents fighting. Mita consuls him, and the two walk down the 
street to Mita’s house, where his moms suggest the boys go around town to find the 
Bike’s owner.
________________
3. Brick
Mita and Clay pass Brick’s house, and she sees them through the window, running 
outside to join them. Brick is a red panda, steadfast and absolute in her ideas, 
and does not like compromising. She is stubborn and will always side with her 
friends.
________________
4. Silt
the kids see Silt writing his name in the dust by the schoolyard. they surprise 
him, he is skittish, and he runs to the trailer home without a word. later he 
returns with snacks as the kids are on their way to the park. his dad waves from 
the open door. 
Silt is a grey english sheepdog, but he swears he’s white but just covered in dust 
and ash from playing. He is Mud’s brother, and they live together with their dad in 
a trailer home by the school. He loves going to the park with Mud, where he will 
draw patterns in the dry dirt, and bring armfuls of it to Mud, to be mixed with 
water from the fountain.
________________
5. Mud
Mud is Silt’s sibling. Mud likes playing with mucky things like soil, dough, and 
slime. Mud makes different mixes of dirt and water to experiment with 
consistencies. After playtime, dad sprays Mud clean with the garden hose behind the 
trailer.
________________
6. Bullies
Mita, Clay, Brick, Silt, and Mud are walking over to old Quincy’s house on the 
hill, and they reach the park before being stopped by some older bullies.
________________
7. A Clue
After escaping the bullies, the kids discover an engraving on the underside of the 
bicycle seat. initials: A.M.
________________
8. Up The Hill
________________
9. A Mystery
________________
10. Mita
________________
11. The Bicycle
