Slyly, the broad-chested, fair-bodied man with suntanned skin and a plain colorless 
shirt smiled a generous, friendly look at the face of the woman he passed on the 
sidewalk. She said hello, to which he responded with a similar sentiment, wishing 
her a good morning as their paths diverged in opposite directions. When he had 
turned leftward, now facing the large parking garage, his face melted from a look 
of joyous greeting to a plain, stoic expression that mirrored the barren, dusty 
walls of concrete now surrounding him. All the cars had departed except his, he had 
parked on the third floor, the top floor, as he was a fan of the visage of the 
ocean which the garage overlooked. Stepping up the stairs, six flights in all, he 
huffed a bit at the top to catch his breath. His car, a flatbed truck of 
indiscriminate silvered color, was parked at the front corner of the lot. Walking 
to the side of it, he peered over the chest-height wall, and into the sprawling 
horizon of endless water. To his left was a careening of the massive bridge on 
which the building was situated, indeed on which all the buildings he knows of are 
situated. To his right, he could nearly see the landmass that was once called North 
America, though the continent was hidden partially by a thick shield of fog- no, 
perhaps smoke- which spread from a distant town. Perhaps the tide had stirred up a 
cloud of water vapor, or the bimonthly refuse incineration was occurring. 

        It is strange to think that a person from a few hundred years ago would 
find it appalling, this city upon an inter-continental bridge. However, daily life 
is much too dreary for him. A month or two ago, he had noticed a campsite further 
into the mainland, and after confirming through careful scouting that it had only 
one member, he had been preparing for a hunt for weeks. 
________________
        His eyes drew open in a slow stuporous state
